# Degenerate-Sim-2005
First Python game made with Ben Griffiths

For our Project we wanted to create a choice-driven story game with multiple branching paths. The main options of the player are to follow a corporate or “straightedge” path, a criminal “mob” path and a wild and wacky “substance-experience” path.
There are a couple of non-player characters mentioned in some of the stories. We have three main endings for the player, with multiple smaller “sub-endings” which should make for interesting playthroughs and replayability to find all the endings available.
Using our Trello board we brainstormed ideas for the story, looking at different genres and settings for games inspired by real life and other videogames we have played. We pinned these to the Trello board, and had an open discussion about them. We came to a consensus of a general setting with multiple pathways, which allowed us to incorporate more of each of our ideas.
As the game is a purely text-based adventure made in Python, it meant that the scope of the game would have certain limitations, which also eliminated some ideas we would have liked to work with.
The main tools used to make our game included Trello, Figma (for the flow chart), Teams and VSCode, alongside google, W3D, StackOverflow and ChatGPT for bug fixing. The main advantages of these tools were the ability to collaborate on the Project together. Using Figma and Trello, we were able to edit the flow chart and Trello board together, with updates appearing simultaneously for both of us. Teams was also very useful in this regard for speaking to each other and sending different versions of the game for each of us to download and test.
Some difficulties we encountered, however sometimes having to wait for certain parts of the code to be finalised before working on the next part. This could have been mitigated by VSCodes ability for one person to host a session, and another to work on the same file, however when we started we were not aware of this feature. Teams as also sometimes inconsistent, lagging out or disconnecting us from calls at important points which wasted some of our time, and Figma was actually our second choice in flow-chart editors as the first editor was too stiff and a little obtuse to use. Overall I am happy with our choice of tools for this project ,especially using Pythin as the programming language.
We had a few key features we wanted to incorporate into our game. The first being the ability to track the players actions through a level and morality system and have this impact the choices they make and the eventual endings of the game achieved. The second was an addiction mechanic which would give bonuses to the player but can end their run in the game prematurely. We did not want to rely too much on randomness within the game, therefore tweaking to the addiction system was necessary to ensure it felt fair whilst also being a gamble.

Our goals in the Team were to have a concrete idea of general story beats, and the systems we would be using and how to implement them. We started with a Flow Chart which mapped out the general story, its branching paths, and how we would like the endings to turn out. Next, we utilised the Trello board to assign specific coding tasks to each member of the team. During stand-up meetings set at the beginning, middle and towards the end of the day, we would provide each other with verbal updates and copies of the code we were working on. It also proved invaluable to have impromptu meetings to discuss certain features and help each other with bug-fixing. Without these 1-2-1 sessions and use of version types for files we were working on, we would not have been able to put the Project together.
Jermaine
My role in the team started with creating the flow-chart for us to use as a base for the idea of the game This is because I have more experience using Figma which we decided would be the best tool for the chart. I also had a major role in creating and testing the morality system for the game, alongside testing and tweaking the addiction mechanic which Ben created for the game.
During our time coding the Project, I worked on coding the “straightedge” and “mob” paths, following the flow-chart we had worked on at the start of the Project. This included sending multiple version types of the code so we could stay up to date on how the story was progressing, and also to obtain help with bug fixing.

Ben
Work began for me by starting the Trello board and keeping it up to date. I would ensure that certain tasks were assigned and was also the main creative driving force around specific story beats and setting of the game. I also created the “spine” of the game, the main story from which the character can start branching into the “straightedge”, “mob” and “substance” pathways.
When the idea of adding an addiction mechanic was brought up, I researched and came up with a function that would repeat throughout the game to represent the players potential slip into an addiction spiral. I have also been instrumental in continuous bug-fixes and checking over the code for continuity errors.
If front-end were incorporated into this Project, major challenges we could foresee would include having to learn more advanced HTML, CSS and potentially some JavaScript in order to get the game up and running in a browser.
Advantages of having a front-end for a game like this include visibility, it would be easier to market the game and accessibility. Having a front-end would make the experience more seamless for the player, it should be easier to be focussed on the content and it would also look a lot nicer as we could implement PNG, JEG, GIF and even video files to make it more visually appealing.
The major disadvantages to adding front-end to a game like this would be the increased complexity requiring more time to make a minimal viable product, as well as making even more points where the game could fail due to bugs and visual inconsistencies.

Jermaine – Working in a team
I found the use of stand-up meetings, and 1-2-1 catch-ups very helpful in keeping everyone up-to-date on how we were all getting on with the Project, as well as providing extra encouragement when facing issues. One such issue I found was being unable to restart the game, with Ben creating a function for us to use to reset the morality, level and addiction features, alongside a simple function to restart the game entirely or to quit out of the game by importing sys.
There were also opportunities for me to provide Ben with help too, such as building upon the addiction system he created and introducing the morality and player levels as variables within the function, to make the system itself feel less random, and more under player control.
Overall the communication within the Team was stellar. Although there were naturally times when each Member was busy coding their own part of the game due to the deliberate modularity with how we built it, we oalways made time to catch up with each other multiple times during the day, and utilised messaging within Teams when a full conversation was not required.

Coding of the game was completed in Python using VSCode, we created the base functions required together, then implemented them throughout the game, often using ChatGPT, Stack Overflow and W3D to double check errors and debug the game. The inbuilt code checkers in VSCode were also invaluable in seeking out and correcting syntactical errors quickly and effectively. 
We found using ChatGPT very helpful, however it was best used as a general guide of understanding how code works, rather than using it to write functions wholesale. Stack Overflow also proved invaluable whaen double checking errors and bridging gaps in our knowledge, especially when we had an idea for a function of the game (like restarting or quitting) but were unsure how we could code this.
Throughout the entire process of creating the game, we would continually test the code for bugs which was essential to make sure that anyone playing the game would have fun, and not become unduly irritated or exasperated by a poor experience. It also ensured that when putting the project together, there were less issues we would have to fix, as we knew each section would work independently.
We feel that the experience would have been very different being a solo project instead of a team one. Without collaboration, we would not have settled on the system we feel makes our game stand out, the morality and addiction mechanics, and it would also have been more draining when fixing bugs, as having more than one person working on an issue made it more tolerable when the code wasn’t working.

We believe that the choice to make the game modular went very well alongside the general ideas we had for how the story would progress with it’s branching pathways. Using Python was a very solid choice, as the syntax is simple to use and understand, and there are plenty of resources online to fall back on to help understand certain concepts.
One thing we would change if we were to complete the Project again would be to have a more solid storyboard for the branching stories. While most of the stories were already written down, and gave a great basis to work from, not having one of the stories fleshed out resulted n more time spent thinking about story content than we would have liked.
Overall making this game in Python using the tools we chose was an enjoyable and stimulating experience. Working as part of a team allowed us to collaborate and incorporate ideas we would not have had on our own, and this enabled us to both flex our creativity and problem-solving skills whilst making us much more confident programmers.

